---
layout: post
title: "Watchers in Vue.js"
description: " "
date: 2023-10-04
tags: [vuejs, watchers]
comments: true
share: true
---

One of the key features of Vue.js is the ability to reactively update the DOM based on changes in the application's data. However, there are situations where you might want to perform custom logic or side effects when a certain data property changes. This is where **watchers** come into play.

## What are watchers?

Watchers in Vue.js allow you to **observe** and **react** to changes in a specific data property. They provide a way to **trigger custom code** whenever the data changes, giving you fine-grained control over your application's behavior.

## How to create a watcher?

To create a watcher in Vue.js, you need to define a `watch` object in the component's options. Inside this object, you can specify the data property you want to watch and the handler function that will be called whenever the property changes.

```javascript
data() {
  return {
    message: 'Hello Vue.js',
  };
},
watch: {
  message(newVal, oldVal) {
    console.log(`New value: ${newVal}, Old value: ${oldVal}`);
    // Perform custom logic based on the new and old value
  },
},
```

In the above code, we have defined a watcher for the `message` data property. Whenever the `message` is updated, the watcher's handler function will be called with the new value and the old value.

## Watcher handler function

The watcher handler function takes two parameters: `newVal` and `oldVal`. These represent the new value and the old value of the watched property, respectively. You can use these parameters to perform any custom logic or side effects based on the changes.

## Adding watchers dynamically

Watchers can also be added dynamically during the component's lifecycle using the `$watch` method. This method allows you to watch a property and specify the corresponding handler function.

```javascript
created() {
  this.$watch('message', (newVal, oldVal) => {
    console.log(`New value: ${newVal}, Old value: ${oldVal}`);
    // Perform custom logic based on the new and old value
  });
},
```

In the above code, we are using the `$watch` method in the `created` hook to dynamically add a watcher for the `message` property.

## Conclusion

Watchers in Vue.js provide a powerful way to respond to changes in specific data properties. They allow you to trigger custom logic, perform side effects, or update other data properties based on the changes. By leveraging watchers effectively, you can create more dynamic and interactive Vue.js applications.

#vuejs #watchers