---
layout: post
title: "React.js CSS styling"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-25
tags: [React, Styling]
comments: true
share: true
---

React.js is a popular JavaScript library for building user interfaces, and one aspect of building user interfaces is styling them with CSS. In this blog post, we will explore different ways to style React components using CSS.

## Inline Styles

React allows you to define inline styles for individual components using the `style` attribute. Inline styles are defined as JavaScript objects, where the keys are CSS property names in camel case, and the values are the corresponding CSS property values.

```jsx
import React from 'react';

function MyComponent() {
  const styles = {
    color: 'red',
    fontSize: '16px',
    fontWeight: 'bold'
  };

  return (
    <div style={styles}>
      This is a styled component
    </div>
  );
}
```

In the example above, we define an object `styles` with CSS properties as keys and their values as values. We then apply these styles to the `div` element using the `style` attribute.

## CSS Modules

CSS Modules is a popular approach for styling React components. It allows you to write CSS stylesheets in a modular way, with locally scoped class names.

First, we need to set up CSS Modules in our React project. This can be done by installing a CSS Modules library, like `css-loader`, and configuring it in the webpack configuration file.

Once CSS Modules is set up, we can import CSS stylesheets into our React components and use the locally scoped class names.

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import styles from './MyComponent.module.css';

function MyComponent() {
  return (
    <div className={styles.container}>
      <p className={styles.text}>This is a styled component</p>
    </div>
  );
}
```

In the example above, we import the CSS styles from the `MyComponent.module.css` file and assign them to the `styles` object. We can then use the locally scoped class names defined in the CSS file by adding `styles.` prefix to the class names.

## CSS-in-JS Libraries

There are also CSS-in-JS libraries that provide more advanced ways to style React components. Some popular CSS-in-JS libraries include styled-components, Emotion, and JSS.

Styled-components, for example, allows you to write CSS styles directly in your JavaScript code using tagged template literals.

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import styled from 'styled-components';

const StyledDiv = styled.div`
  color: red;
  font-size: 16px;
  font-weight: bold;
`;

function MyComponent() {
  return (
    <StyledDiv>
      This is a styled component
    </StyledDiv>
  );
}
```

In the example above, we define a styled `div` component using styled-components and write CSS styles inside the tagged template literal.

## Conclusion

Styling React components is an important part of building user interfaces. React provides various approaches to style components, including inline styles, CSS Modules, and CSS-in-JS libraries like styled-components. Choose the approach that best suits your project and enjoy styling your React components!

#React #CSS #Styling #ReactJS