---
layout: post
title: "Hashing with Chaining"
description: " "
date: 2023-10-01
tags: [techblog, hashing]
comments: true
share: true
---

Hashing is a popular technique used in computer science to efficiently store and retrieve data. One common implementation is known as hashing with chaining. In this blog post, we will explore how this method works and its advantages.

## What is Hashing with Chaining?

Hashing with chaining is a collision resolution technique used in hash tables. It handles collisions by allowing multiple items to be stored at the same index in the hash table. Instead of overwriting the existing item, it creates a linked list to store all the collided items.

## How does it work?

1. First, a **hash function** is used to compute the hash value of the key. This value indicates the index where the item will be stored in the hash table.
2. If the index is empty, the item is stored directly at that index.
3. If the index is already occupied, a linked list is created at that index.
4. The new item is then added to the linked list.
5. When searching for an item, the hash function is used to find the corresponding index. If the index is empty, the item is not in the hash table. If it contains a linked list, a linear search is performed within that list to find the desired item.

## Advantages of Hashing with Chaining

### 1. Handling Collisions

One of the main advantages of hashing with chaining is its ability to handle collisions efficiently. Since collided items are stored in a linked list, collisions do not result in the loss of data. This ensures that all elements are correctly stored and retrieved from the hash table.

### 2. Dynamic Size

Hashing with chaining allows for a dynamic size of the hash table. As items are added to the hash table, the linked lists grow in size to accommodate new elements. This makes it suitable for situations where the number of items is unpredictable.

### 3. Constant Time Complexity (Average Case)

On average, the time complexity for inserting, searching, and deleting elements in a hash table using chaining is constant, O(1). This constant time complexity remains relatively stable even with the addition of more items to the hash table.

## Conclusion

Hashing with chaining is a robust technique for handling collisions in hash tables. It ensures efficient storage and retrieval of data, even in the presence of collisions. With its dynamic size and constant time complexity, Hashing with chaining offers an effective solution for many applications.

#techblog #hashing